wham bam something crashes to the floor
glass shatters in the silent and pitch
black darkness of your bedroom
the clutter is deafening you're almost
certain it's still too early to wake up
yet
grunting you stretch your hand and grab
your phone 3
15 am you gotta be kidding me ah
this cat yeah the worst thing about this
it happens every single night your wild
kitty streaks around the house in a
frenzy
yowls and knock stuff over have you
accidentally gotten yourself
a broken cat nah this behavior is
perfectly normal
in most cases it means your cat has too
much pen-up energy it needs to use
your ball of fluff is likely to spend
most of its time catching some z's
it doesn't get enough exercise during
the day and tries to find some
outlet for all that energy
if you've just moved to a new place
there might be some pests
already leaving there your cat with its
hyper-sensitive hearing and smell
might pick up their presence most
insects are more active at night
your kitty won't be able to rest with
them scuttling around
so you better get rid of the pests as
soon as you can
if your cat wouldn't calm down even
during the day
take it to see the vet your pet is
likely to have some problems
that make it feel physical discomfort
for example
fleas if you can't stand
not getting normal night rest anymore
you can use
several cunning tricks they'll make your
fluffy companions sleep like a log at
night
but you'll learn about them a bit later
first let's figure out why your cat
chirps
you've surely heard short peep-like
sounds your cat makes
in most cases it's their hunting
instinct kicking in while they're
watching birds or insects your furry
friend can start trilling at a toy too
sometimes cats begin to chatter their
teeth some specialists believe it
happens when the animals get frustrated
their potential prey seems to be so
close
just outside the window but still out of
their reach
other experts think that such bizarre
jaw movements
let your pet get prepared for catching
its food
like most cats your kitty is likely to
bunt
that's when it presses and rubs its head
against you and other stuff
that's the way your pet marks you and
the things around with its scent
and claims it all including you as its
own
sometimes for seemingly no reason your
ball of fluff may begin to push things
off the table and watch them fall to the
floor
it's all too easy to believe your pet
wants to make you mad
in reality the cat is either bored or
curious
it entertains itself with batting stuff
off different surfaces
[Music]
get your pets a new toy to distract it
from this habit
oh by the way do you know how we know
the earth isn't flat
well if it were flat cats would have
already pushed
everything off of it yeah it's an old
joke
anyway if your cat starts to roll around
on its back
in front of you it's a great compliment
for felines it's an extremely
vulnerable position if your kitty isn't
afraid of showing you its unprotected
belly
you've earned its trust and if your pet
is rolling around on the floor
it wants to inform you it's play time
now cats are incredibly cute and funny
in their belief that they can fit in the
tiniest spaces
in their defense they do look rather
comfortable in
vases bathroom sinks and even cereal
boxes
such small spaces make your cat feel
secure
it can also observe its surroundings
from a distance and no one will be able
to sneak up on it
your cat might be interrupting your
phone calls because it gets
jealous of all that attention you give
someone else
it's a sign you need to have more
one-on-one time
with your furry friend if you spot your
cat
sitting in a totally inappropriate way
for example with its legs sprawled wide
open
there's no need to worry it means your
pet is calm
relaxed and happy even better it trusts
you
and knows it's safe in your presence
you might have caught your cat biting
its nails
it's likely to be just a manicure
session or
the kitty can be anxious about something
and it's a bad habit to calm itself down
some people tend to bite their nails
while they're bored or nervous
it's the same with cats
your feline friend may start to scratch
around its food bowl after the meal is
over
or even cover it with some shredded
paper it's normal
instinctive behavior the cat wants its
food to be hidden
and safe from others
now you're supposed to feel flattered
not disgusted
if your kitty brings you its catch
a mouse may indeed look revolting on
your pillow
but by placing it there the cat shows
you that you're
a member of its group and it cares for
you deeply
your pet may also be saying thank you in
such an eccentric way
you've barely had time to open your book
or laptop
and your cat has already plopped down on
it
the animal understands that this way the
chances are
it'll get some of your attention and a
good head scratch
every once in a while you may catch your
cat sneering
this phenomenon has a scientific name
but it sure looks like a scornful lip
curl
you won't see it directed your way
though it's a reaction to other cat's
invisible messages
your cat picks up pheromones from the
nearby felines
the lip curl is produced when your kitty
traps these pheromones with its tongue
against the roof of the mouth male cats
sneer
more often than females
if your cat is watching you intently run
for shelter
your miniature predator is about to
pounce these animals like to observe
their potential prey
this way they make sure their effort
won't be wasted when they
finally lunge another sign that is time
to back off
is your cat twitching its ears that's
how it expresses its
agitation or anxiety if you keep
bothering the animal it might attack you
but if the cat's ears are pointed
upright
it's listening to some noise that's
attracted its attention
it's much more pleasant when your pet
starts to give you kitty kisses
that's when the feline is slowly
blinking at you
experts are sure it's your cat's way to
show its affection
try blinking back just as slowly your
kitty is likely to continue
to send kisses your way sweet little
meows from your cat are the way it
greets you
after making this cute sound it may jump
in your lap and demand some cuddling
but if the meow is loud and demanding
the feline is likely to be hungry either
feed your fluffy companion right away
or explain why it's going to get its
meal later
if your cat wouldn't look at you no
matter what leave it alone
felines need alone time just as much as
you do
sometimes all they want is some space
and solitude
if you don't disturb your kitty it'll
feel more respect for you
and when it's time to cuddle it'll come
back
and now as promised the tricks that can
help you get rid of those dark circles
under your eyes
when you sleep your eyes move under your
lids
if your cat is somewhere nearby it can
get curious and
swat at your face not to get
accidentally injured
it's better to shut your kitty out of
your room at night if it scratches at
the door and cries
put something a feline wouldn't want to
step on near the entrance
it can be double sided sticky tape
aluminum
foil or vinyl carpet runner with its
knobby side up
give your kitty the biggest meal of the
day in the evening
cats tend to fall asleep after they've
eaten a lot just like at thanksgiving
have a long play session with your cat
before going to bed
use the toys that wiggle and dangle they
mimic the movement of small prey
like mice or birds keep entertaining
your pet until it gets tired
your peaceful sleep depends on how hard
you try
if you spend most of your time at home
try to wear the cat out with
active games the more it moves during
the day
the better it sleeps at night
and if your pet is social with other
cats and you can afford it
get a second kitty they're likely to
play with each other
and leave you alone at night